<!-- omit in toc -->
# Contributing

- [Types of contribution](#types-of-contribution)
  - [Non-Programming](#non-programming)
  - [Programming](#programming)
- [Discuss \& design first](#discuss--design-first)
- [Getting the source](#getting-the-source)
  - [Install into a virtual Python environment](#install-into-a-virtual-python-environment)
  - [Install in editable mode](#install-in-editable-mode)
- [Command design](#command-design)
- [Implementation examples](#implementation-examples)
- [Helpers \& Utilities](#helpers--utilities)
- [Logging](#logging)
- [Autogenerated Python package documentation](#autogenerated-python-package-documentation)


## Types of contribution

### Non-Programming

* [Install synadm link FIXME](#) report back whether or not the installation process worked on the OS you're running.
* Help prioritize what to code next: Pick a feature from the commands list, open a github issue in this repo and tell us what it is.
* Help keeping the [commands list](#implementation-status--commands-list) on our README page current. The Synapse project is steadily releasing new features for the admin API, we can't keep up with updating this list but still think it is a helpful overview for `synadm` users what is and what is not yet supported.
* Help correcting the online help. `synadm`s documentation is almost entirely realised with the online help of unix commands `--help/-h`. Fortunately this can be rendered to HTML easily and can be found here online: FIXME synadm.rtd.io If you spot an typing/grammar/technical error please correct it and submit it to us.

FIXME 

### Programming

* Pick an open issue on Github FIXME link, start implementing and submit a PR. 
* Read the [Synapse admin API docs](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/tree/master/docs/admin_api), pick a feature, implement it and send a pull-request - see the [implementation examples chapter](#implementation-examples) for a quick primer.


## Discuss & design first

It proved to be useful in the past if loose (feature) ideas would be discussed in #synadm:peek-a-boo.at first, which helps forming a more concrete idea that can than further be summarized into a well written github issue.

 and finally be implemented by a `synadm` contributor or a `synadm` maintainer.


## Getting the source

### Install into a virtual Python environment

To install `synadm` into its own private virtual Python environment, FIXME

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### 1. Check Python version

`python3 --version` should show at least v3.6.x

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### 2. Clone repo:

```
git clone https://github.com/joj0/synadm
```

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### 3. Setup and load a new Python3 virtual environment


Create and activate a virtual environment using the python3 venv module:

```
python3 -m venv ~/.venvs/synadm
source ~/.venvs/synadm/bin/activate
```

Once your Python virtual environment is loaded and your prompt looks similar to `(synadm) ....  $ `, install directly into the environment:


<!-- omit in toc -->
#### 4. Install

```
cd synadm
pip install .
```

*Note: Don't forget to activate the venv when coming back to using `synadm` after a fresh login: `source ~/.venvs/synadm/bin/activate`*

<!-- omit in toc -->
#### 5. Run

As long as your venv is loaded `synadm` should run fine without having to add a path in front of it

```
synadm -h
```


### Install in editable mode

To be able to instantly be able to test the code you've been working on it makes sense to install from your git clone in _editable mode_

```
cd synadm
pip install -e .
```

*Note: When installed like this, code-changes inside the repo dir will immediately be available when executing `synadm`. This could also be used as a quick way to just stay on top of synadm's development.*

## Command design

The general design of a synadm subcommand is simple. You would usually have:

- A method in the _backend module_, which is located in the file [synadm/api.py](https://github.com/JOJ0/synadm/blob/master/synadm/api.py).
- A definition of the CLI frontend. We are using Click as the underlying framework. It's easy to learn and usually rather self-explanatory. Just copy and paste an existing command and work from there.
- 
_Note: If you are not familiar with Python code, don't let yourself get distracted with the unusual @statements that define argumentes and options. They are so called decorators that "plug in" those options into your commands function. You don't need to understand why this concept of decorators is used by the Click library._

## Implementation examples

Have a look at this method: https://github.com/JOJ0/synadm/blob/107d34b38de71d6d21d78141e78a1b19d3dd5379/synadm/cli/user.py#L185

and this one: https://github.com/JOJ0/synadm/blob/107d34b38de71d6d21d78141e78a1b19d3dd5379/synadm/api.py#L80

That's all it needs to implement command `synadm user details <user_id>`.

And another example, this time using a POST based API endpoint. It implements command `synadm user password <user_id>`. This is the CLI-level method: https://github.com/JOJ0/synadm/blob/0af918fdeee40bc1d3df7b734a46e76bb31148b9/synadm/cli/user.py#L114

and again it needs a backend method in api.py:
https://github.com/JOJ0/synadm/blob/107d34b38de71d6d21d78141e78a1b19d3dd5379/synadm/api.py#L72

## Helpers & Utilities

You'll find a couple of helpers & utilities [near the top of the api module's code](https://github.com/JOJ0/synadm/blob/master/synadm/api.py#L125), right below the `query()` method. For example we already provide methods to translate unix timestamps to human readable formats and vice versa. 

If you need to to defer code to a helper function because you require reusing it or otherwise think it's a cleaner approach put it where you need it: Either as a subfunction in your backend method in the `synadm/api` module or in the frontend function in `synadm/cmd/yourcommand`. If you think you've wrote a function that is very generic and might be useful to other `synadm/api` methods as well, put it next to _.

## Logging

Simply use `self.log.warn()` (or `.error/.debug/.info`) within the `synadm/api` module.

From a command's frontend code in the `synadm/cmd` package, logging is available via the `helper` object that usually should be passed to subcommand function: `helper.log.warn()`.

## Autogenerated Python package documentation

We provide an auto-generated [developer's documentation](https://synadm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index_modules.html) generated with the help of the Sphinx library. This requires that code is documented by developers by a certain format in the docstrings of functions, classes and methods.

We use the google docstring format to achieve because we believe it provides the best human-readability when compared to other docstring formats that Sphinx supports for auto-generating package documentation.

FIXME link to google docstring docs.